now the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron in
the land of Egypt this month shall be
your beginning of months it shall be the
first month of the year to you speak to
all the congregation of Israel saying on
the 10th of this month every man shall
take for himself a lamb according to the
house of his father a lamb for a
household and if the household is too
small for the lamb let him and his
neighbor next to his house take it
according to the number of the persons
according to each man's need you shall
make your count for the lamb your lamb
shall be without blemish a male of the
first year you may take it from the
sheep or from the goats now you shall
keep it until the fourteenth day of the
same month then the whole Assembly of
the congregation of Israel shall kill it
at Twilight and they shall take some of
the blood and put it on the two-door
posts and on the lintel of the houses
where they eat it then they shall eat
the flesh on that night roasted in fire
with unleavened bread and with bitter
herbs they shall eat it do not eat it
raw nor boiled at all with water but
roasted in fire its head with its legs
and its entrails you shall let none of
it remain until morning and what remains
of it until morning you shall burn with
fire and thus you shall eat it with a
belt on your waist
your sandals on your feet and your staff
in your hand so you shall eat it in
haste it is the Lord's pass
for I will pass through the land of
Egypt on that night and will strike all
the firstborn in the land of Egypt both
man and beast and against all the gods
of Egypt I will execute judgment I am
the Lord now the blood shall be a sign
for you on the houses where you are and
when I see the Blood I will pass over
you and the plague shall not be on you
to destroy you when I strike the land of
Egypt so this day shall be to you a
memorial and you shall keep it as a
feast to the Lord throughout your
generations you shall keep it as a feast
by an everlasting ordinance
seven days you shall eat unleavened
bread on the first day you shall remove
leaven from your houses for whoever eats
leavened bread from the first day until
the seventh day that person shall be cut
off from Israel on the first day there
shall be a holy convocation and on the
seventh day there shall be a holy
convocation for you know manner of work
shall be done on them but that which
everyone must eat that only may be
prepared by you so you shall observe the
feast of unleavened bread for on the
same day I will have brought your armies
out of the land of Egypt therefore you
shall observe this day throughout your
generations as an everlasting ordinance
in the first month on the fourteenth day
of the month at evening you shall eat
unleavened bread until the 21st day of
the month
at evening for seven days no leaven
shall be found in your houses since
whoever eats what is leavened that same
person shall be cut off from the
congregation of Israel whether he is a
stranger or a native of the land you
shall eat nothing leavened in all your
dwellings you shall eat unleavened bread
the Moses called for all the elders of
Israel and said to them pick out and
take lambs for yourselves according to
your families and kill the Passover lamb
and you shall take a bunch of hyssop dip
it in the blood that is in the basin and
strike the lintel and the two doorposts
with the blood that is in the basin and
none of you shall go out of the door of
his house until morning for the Lord
will pass through to strike the
Egyptians and when he sees the blood on
the lintel and on the two door posts the
Lord will pass over the door and not
allow the destroyer to come into your
houses to strike you and you shall
observe this thing as an ordinance for
you and your sons for ever
it will come to pass when you come to
the land which the Lord will give you
just as he promised that you shall keep
this service and shall be when your
children say to you what do you mean by
this service that you shall say it is
the Passover sacrifice of the Lord who
passed over the houses of the children
of Israel in Egypt when he struck the
Egyptians and delivered our households
so the people bowed their heads and
worshiped then the children of Israel
went away and did so just as the Lord
had commanded Moses and Aaron so they
did
[Music]
and it came to pass at midnight but the
Lord struck all the firstborn in the
land of Egypt on the firstborn of
Pharaoh who sat on his throne to the
firstborn of the captive who was in the
dungeon and all the firstborn of life
so Ferrer rose in the night he all his
servants and all the Egyptians and there
was a great cry in Egypt for there was
not a house where there was not one dead
and he called for Moses and Aaron by
night right go out from among my people
of you and the children of Israel and go
serve the Lord as you have said also
take your flocks and your herds as you
have said
bless me Alton and the Egyptians urged
the people that they might send them out
of the land in haste for they said which
will all be burned so the people took
their dough before it was leavened
having their kneading balls bound up in
their clothes on their shoulders now the
children of Israel had done according to
the word of Moses and they had asked
from the Egyptians articles of silver
articles of gold and clothing and the
Lord had given the people favor in the
sight of the Egyptians so that they
granted them what they requested thus
they plundered the Egyptians and the
children of Israel journeyed from Ramses
to Sukkoth about 600,000 men on foot
besides children a mixed multitude went
up with them also and flocks and herds a
great deal of livestock and they baked
unleavened cakes of the dough which they
had brought out of Egypt for it was not
leavened because they were driven out of
Egypt and could not wait nor had they
prepared provisions for themselves
now the sojourn of the children of
Israel who lived in Egypt was 430 years
and it came to pass at the end of the
430 years on that very same day it came
to pass that all the armies of the Lord
went out from the land of Egypt
it is a night of solemn observance to
the Lord for bringing them out of the
land of Egypt this is that night of the
Lord
a solemn observance for all the children
of Israel throughout their generations
and the Lord said to Moses and Aaron
this is the ordinance of the Passover no
foreigner shall eat it but every man's
servant who is bought for money when you
have circumcised him then he may eat it
the Sojourner and a hired servant shall
not eat it in one house it shall be
eaten
you shall not carry any of the flesh
outside the house nor shall you break
one of its bones all the congregation of
Israel shall keep it and when a stranger
dwells with you and wants to keep the
Passover to the Lord let all his males
be circumcised and then let him come
near and keep it and he shall be as a
native of the land for no uncircumcised
person shall eat it one law shall be for
the native born and for the stranger who
dwells among you
[Music]
thus all the children of Israel did as
the LORD commanded Moses and Aaron so
they did and it came to pass on that
very same day that the Lord brought the
children of Israel out of the land of
Egypt according to their armies
you
[Music]